-Before we get started
with this, I just want to say
the President
started a press conference
at around 5:00 tonight.
We tape at 6:30.
It was still going on
when we started,
and so I just want to thank,
in advance,
everybody who works
on "A Closer Look,"
because they were pulling clips
right up to when
I walked out here, so...
If this looks crazy, one,
it already was crazy,
two, it's because
it was doing it in realtime.
So here we go.
President Trump just held
a crazy solo press conference
in New York where he defended
his Supreme Court nominee
Brett Kavanaugh from
sexual-assault allegations.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump, of course, lies freely
to his adoring fans
at rallies and on Fox News.
But yesterday,
at the United Nations,
we saw what happens when
he steps outside his bubble.
He repeated a ludicrous
campaign talking point,
and the crowd laughed at him.
-In less than two years,
my administration
has accomplished more than
almost any administration
in the history of our country.
America's --
So true.
[ Laughter ]
Didn't expect that reaction,
but that's okay.
[ Laughter ]
-He had no idea
what he was saying was funny.
[ Laughter ]
It's like he's been playing
for the Harlem Globetrotters
his whole life,
and suddenly
they're playing against
the Golden State Warriors.
[ Laughter ]
"What do you mean
technical foul?
I always use this ladder."
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
Now the U.N....
The U.N. used to be
a solemn, dignified place,
and now Trump has turned it into
the studio audience
from "Married...with Children."
From now on,
all of Trump's speeches
should come
with a sitcom disclaimer.
[ Laughter and applause ]
It's such a bummer
to watch world leaders
sit around and laugh at us.
I just wish somebody
would run for President
promising to do something
about it.
-The world is laughing at us.
The world is laughing at us.
They think we're stupid.
They think our representatives
don't know what they're doing.
They laugh at us
behind our back.
-See? He fixed it.
[ Laughter ]
Now, instead of
laughing behind his back,
they laugh right in his face.
[ Cheers and applause ]
But Trump, of course...
Trump cannot abide
being humiliated
or exposed as the liar he is,
so later in the day,
when he was asked
about the laughter,
he made
this preposterous claim --
he meant to get laughed at.
-Oh.
It was meant to get laughter?
So you've been
doing that joke for two years,
and the first time
it ever worked
was at the U.N.?
[ Laughter ]
"You guys are a great audience.
My usual crowd
doesn't get that one."
That was not
meant to get laughter.
Trump's like
the kid at the sleepover
who wakes up with his hand
in warm water and says,
"Oh, good.
I meant to pee my pants."
[ Laughter ]
But this incident
was a deeply revealing look
at the ways in which Trump
and his sycophants
lie and then create
alternate realities
to justify those lies.
Because this morning,
his aides and supporters
on state TV adopted his line
and insisted that the crowd
was actually laughing with him.
-When he said that,
they loved how honest he is.
And it's not diplomatic,
and they find it funny.
-I like the President.
I like his comment.
I like the reaction.
And then, when he said, "I
wasn't expecting that reaction,"
I liked it when everyone
laughed afterwards.
I was surprised,
or should I say, not surprised
but taken aback by the way
other people said,
"Oh, the world's
laughing at us."
I think that we're having fun.
-So, to recap, Trump lied,
got laughed at,
and then lied
about getting laughed at,
and then Fox News lied
about Trump's lie
about how he got laughed at
for lying.
And Trump's claim
that he's accomplished more
than any administration
in history
wasn't the only laugh line
in his speech.
He also repeated
a debunked talking point
that he's used before
that Germany is becoming
dependent on Russia
for oil and gas.
And when the camera took a crowd
shot of the German delegation,
they seemed
to be laughing at him.
-Germany will become totally
dependent on Russian energy
if it does not
immediately change course.
Here in the Western hemisphere,
we are committed to maintaining
our independence
from the encroachment
of expansionist foreign powers.
[ Laughter ]
-Look...
[ Cheers and applause ]
Look at that dude's face.
You know it's bad when
you've made the Germans laugh.
[ Laughter ]
In Germany,
that face is the equivalent
of a Steve Harvey laugh.
-[ Laughing ]
-Trump kept undercutting his
speech by embarrassing himself.
In fact, in that same clip,
he tried to deride
international organizations
by calling them expansionists,
but he couldn't even
say the word.
-Here in the Western hemisphere,
we are committed to maintaining
our independence
from the encroachment
of expansionist foreign powers.
-Why does he slur
his words so much?
Trump's a teetotaler, and yet
in the middle of the speech,
he still got pulled over
for a DUI.
[ Laughter ]
In fact, later in his speech,
Trump did it again
when he misread the phrase
"human smuggling,"
but in a classic Trump move,
he tried to pretend
that what he accidentally said
was what he meant to say.
-The United States
is also working with partners
in Latin America
to confront threats
to sovereignty
from uncontrolled migration.
Tolerance for human struggling
and human smuggling...
[ Laughter ]
-"Human juggling."
That's right --
human struggling,
as in, "I watched
the President's U.N. speech
and saw a human struggling
to pronounce words."
[ Laughter ]
So, this week --
[ Cheers and applause ]
We've seen, this week,
that there's an entire
right-wing propaganda machine
to insulate Trump
and his inner circle
from the reality of their lies
and the consequences
of their actions.
Let's not forget
Trump's Supreme Court nominee
Brett Kavanaugh
did the exact same thing.
The very first words
Kavanaugh spoke
to the American people
after Trump nominated him
were a flagrant and obvious lie.
-Mr. President, thank you.
Throughout this process,
I have witnessed firsthand
your appreciation for the vital
role of the American judiciary.
No President
has ever consulted more widely
or talked with more people
from more backgrounds
to seek input about
a Supreme Court nomination.
-That was such an obvious
and shameless lie.
Trump was handed a list
by a conservative think tank,
and he picked a name
from that list.
Can you imagine if Kavanaugh
had said that
in front of
the U.N. General assembly?
-No President
has ever consulted more widely
or talked with more people
from more backgrounds...
[ Laughter ]
...to seek input about
a Supreme Court nomination.
-Now, Kavanaugh's willingness
to lie so shamelessly
in that first speech and in his
Fox News interview this week
has wrecked his credibility
as he faces
horrific, credible
new allegations
from a third woman,
Julie Swetnik.
In fact, Kavanaugh's account of
his supposedly pristine,
choir-boy high school
and college days
in that Fox News interview
on Monday
has since been challenged
by many of his own classmates.
For example,
nearly a dozen people
who knew him well
and socialized with him
said Kavanaugh
was a heavy drinker in college,
with one saying Brett
was a sloppy drunk
and another saying he was
frequently incoherently drunk.
And in his high school yearbook,
he listed himself
as the treasurer
of the "Keg City Club --
100 kegs or bust."
In fact, he was so drunk for his
high school history class,
that when he was asked
to describe the U.N.,
he called it...
-Expansionist.
[ Laughter ]
-And on top of that, Mark Judge,
Kavanaugh's friend and classmate
and the man
who was allegedly present
during the incident described
by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford,
wrote a memoir about his drunken
past, called "Wasted," in 1997.
And in that memoir, he doesn't
name Kavanaugh specifically
but he does reference
a character who passes out drunk
and throws up in a car
named Bart O'Kavanaugh."
[ Laughter ]
Dude, you couldn't come up
with a better fake name
for Brett Kavanaugh?
"Hey, man, I'm gonna
put you in my book."
"All right, but make sure
you change my name."
"Don't worry, dude.
No one will know it's you."
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
Now, let's make something clear.
Getting drunk in high school,
getting drunk in college
is not in itself suspicious,
nor is it disqualifying
for the Supreme Court.
But Lying about it
definitely is,
especially when the women
credibly accusing you
of sexual assault say
you were drunk when you did it,
and yet,
in his Fox News interview,
Kavanaugh was adamant that
he was never blackout drunk.
-Was there ever a time
that you drank so much
that you couldn't remember
what happened the night before?
-No.
That never happened.
-You never said to anyone,
"I don't remember anything
about last night"?
-No.
That did not happen.
-Except people who knew
you say it did happen.
Kavanaugh lies so much,
at this point,
I'm expecting him to leave
during the hearing tomorrow
and come back in
with a fake mustache.
[ Irish accent ]
"This man is innocent.
I'm the one who's guilty."
The name's Bart O'Kavanaugh."
[ Laughter ]
"And I'm from Ireland City,
Ireland."
[ Cheers and applause ]
So, Kavanaugh's classmates
say he was frequently drunk,
and Kavanaugh's own credibility
is in tatters,
and yet yesterday,
during a meeting
with the president of Colombia,
Trump stood firmly
behind Kavanaugh.
-I mean, charges come up
from 36 years ago
that are totally
unsubstantiated?
I mean, you, watching this,
as the president
of a great country, Colombia,
you must say,
"How is this possible?"
-Don't bring him into this!
[ Laughter ]
Look at him.
[ Laughter and applause ]
He looks like he's sitting in
the front row at a magic show.
"Don't pick me.
Oh, please, don't pick me."
[ Laughter ]
Now, late today, right before
we started taping the show,
Trump held
a rare solo press conference.
Now, a lot of what
you're gonna hear
is gonna sound insane,
but don't worry.
Trump established
that he is not insane
and is, in fact,
very intelligent.
-If you look at, Mr. Pillsbury,
the leading authority on China,
he was saying that China has
total respect for Donald Trump
and for Donald Trump's
very, very large a-brain.
[ Laughter ]
-"A-brain."
[ Laughter and applause ]
"Some have said my brain
is a spicy meatball."
[ Laughter ]
So, today,
Trump's Supreme Court nominee
was credibly accused of sexual
assault by multiple women
and his confirmation
is in serious doubt.
But I got to say, it seems like
Trump's handling it pretty well.
-If we brought
George Washington here,
and we said,
"We have George Washington,"
the Democrats
would vote against him.
We paid $1.8 billion in cash --
cash -- this whole room
would be filled up
with hundred-dollar bills.
"This is so-and-so calling..."
He took the call.
Why is he taking a call
from a Russian?
It's a con job,
and it's not a bad term.
I'm a very famous person,
unfortunately.
-Yeah.
[ Laughter ]
On that we're in agreement.
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
From there,
Trump went off the rails,
attacking the women alleging
sexual assault against Kavanaugh
and claiming the entire process
was a conspiracy.
-I think when you really
look at it all,
it's not gonna change
any of the Democrats' minds.
They're obstructionists.
They're actually con artists,
because they know
how quality this man is,
and they've destroyed
a man's reputation.
And they know
it's a big, fat con job.
-A big, fat con job?
I'm pretty sure those were the
results from Trump's physical.
[ Laughter and applause ]
Now Trump responded
to the third allegation today
by focusing on her lawyer,
Michael Avenatti,
the same lawyer who represented
Stormy Daniels in a case
that ended with Trump's
personal lawyer Michael Cohen
pleading guilty to crimes
involving Trump.
-Are they liars?
-I can't tell you.
I have to watch tomorrow.
I'll have to read --
I just heard about one
a little while ago.
I can tell you
her lawyer is a lowlife, okay?
-Oh, come on.
If he was such a lowlife,
you would've hired him.
[ Laughter ]
"Is he available?
I love that guy."
Trump also cast out on
the details of the allegation,
suggesting that no one knows
when they actually happened.
-Whether it was a man or a woman
30 years ago, 36 years ago --
In fact, they don't even know
how many years ago.
Because nobody knows
what the time is.
-Just because you don't know
doesn't mean nobody knows.
[ Laughter ]
If someone asked Trump
the name of his son,
Trump would say, "No one knows."
[ Laughter ]
And as usual, he concocted
a deluded conspiracy theory,
claiming the Democrats
had made up the allegations
and that they knew
they were false.
-They go into a room,
and I guarantee you
they laugh like hell
at what they pulled off on you
and on the public.
They laugh like hell.
-No, dude.
They're not the ones laughing.
You're thinking
of the United Nations.
[ Laughter ]
This whole thing, of course,
it's straight out
of Donald Trump's playbook.
He's denied the many credible
sexual-assault allegations
against him and viciously
attacked the women
making those accusations,
and he did the same thing today.
-I've been accused.
False accusations.
Excuse me.
-How have those --
-And I was accused by,
I believe it was four women.
You can check with Sean Hannity.
-Oh!
We should ask Sean Hannity?
You're never in a good place
when your first character
witness is Sean Hannity.
[ Laughter ]
"I didn't eat that guy.
Just ask my pal Hannibal Lecter.
[ Laughter and applause ]
So, Trump defended a man
credibly accused
of sexual assault today
in a solo press conference
that was off the rails
and made it clear
that he is definitely a...
-Human struggling.
-This has been
"A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]